docs: Browsers page rework (#21051)
microsoft/playwright: docs/src/browsers.md

```bash js
npx playwright install-deps
```

```bash java
mvn exec:java -e -D exec.mainClass=com.microsoft.playwright.CLI -D exec.args="install-deps"
```

```bash python
playwright install-deps
```

```bash csharp
pwsh bin/Debug/netX/playwright.ps1 install-deps
```

You can also install the dependencies for a single browser only by passing it as an argument:

```bash js
npx playwright install-deps chromium
```

```bash java
mvn exec:java -e -D exec.mainClass=com.microsoft.playwright.CLI -D exec.args="install-deps chromium"
```

```bash python
playwright install-deps chromium
```

```bash csharp
pwsh bin/Debug/netX/playwright.ps1 install-deps chromium
```

It's also possible to combine `install-deps` with `install` and install by that the browsers and OS dependencies with a single command. This would do both for Chromium, but you can also leave it out.

```bash js
npx playwright install --with-deps chromium
```

```bash java
mvn exec:java -e -D exec.mainClass=com.microsoft.playwright.CLI -D exec.args="install --with-deps chromium"
```

```bash python
playwright install --with-deps chromium
```

```bash csharp
pwsh bin/Debug/netX/playwright.ps1 install --with-deps chromium
```

> ## Browser Configuration

Reviewer: To be consistent with all other headers in this doc.

```suggestion
## Configure browsers
```

* langs: js

> Playwright supports multiple "projects" so that can run your tests in multiple browsers and configurations. Here is an example that runs every test in Chromium, Firefox and WebKit, by creating a project for each. You can also add branded browsers and mobile devices as "projects", see below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Playwright can run your tests in multiple browsers and configurations when you define multiple "projects" in the config . Here is an example that runs every test in Chromium, Firefox and WebKit, by creating a project for each. You can also add branded browsers and mobile devices as "projects", see below.
```

```js tab=js-js
// @ts-check
const { devices, defineConfig } = require('@playwright/test');

module.exports = defineConfig({
  projects: [
    {
      name: 'chromium',
      use: { ...devices['Desktop Chrome'] },
    },
    {
      name: 'firefox',
      use: { ...devices['Desktop Firefox'] },
    },
    {
      name: 'webkit',
      use: { ...devices['Desktop Safari'] },
    },
  ],
});
```

```js tab=js-ts
import { defineConfig, devices } from '@playwright/test';

export default defineConfig({
  projects: [
    {
      name: 'chromium',
      use: { ...devices['Desktop Chrome'] },
    },
    {
      name: 'firefox',
      use: { ...devices['Desktop Firefox'] },
    },
    {
      name: 'webkit',
      use: { ...devices['Desktop Safari'] },
    },
  ],
});
```

You can specify [different options][TestProject] for each project, for example set specific command-line arguments for Chromium.

Playwright Test will run all projects by default.

```bash
npx playwright test

> Running 5 tests using 5 workers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Running 3 tests using 3 workers
```

    channel: 'chrome',
  },
  projects: [
    {
      name: 'chromium',
      use: { ...devices['Desktop Chrome'] },
    },
    {
      name: 'firefox',
      use: { ...devices['Desktop Firefox'] },
    },
    {
      name: 'webkit',
      use: { ...devices['Desktop Safari'] },
    },
  ],
});
```

```js tab=js-library
const { chromium } = require('playwright');
const browser = await chromium.launch({
  channel: 'chrome' // or 'msedge', 'chrome-beta', 'msedge-beta', 'msedge-dev', etc.
});
You can specify [different options][TestProject] for each project, for example set specific command-line arguments for Chromium.

Playwright Test will run all projects by default.

```bash
npx playwright test

Running 5 tests using 5 workers

  ✓ [chromium] › example.spec.ts:3:1 › basic test (2s)
  ✓ [firefox] › example.spec.ts:3:1 › basic test (2s)
  ✓ [webkit] › example.spec.ts:3:1 › basic test (2s)
```

Use the `--project` command line option to run a single project.

```bash
npx playwright test --project=firefox

Running 1 test using 1 worker

  ✓ [firefox] › example.spec.ts:3:1 › basic test (2s)
```

> ```java

Reviewer: I don't like that these examples for languages just evaporated 😄

Author: you mean put back the projects for other langs?

> ## Browser versions

Reviewer: I don't think this header adds much. Perhaps put Chromium et al. as children of "configure browsers"? Maybe we don't need small separate snippets, but instead have the first snippet include projects for all engines, channels and devices?

title: "Browsers"
---

Each version of Playwright needs specific versions of browser binaries to operate. You will need to use Playwright CLI to install these browsers.

With every release, Playwright updates the versions of the browsers it supports, so that the latest Playwright would support the latest browsers at any moment. It means that every time you update playwright, you might need to re-run the `install` CLI command.

## Update Playwright dependency

By keeping your Playwright version up to date you will be able to test your app on the latest browser versions and catch failures before the latest browser version is released to the public.

```bash js

> npm install -D @playwright/test@latest

Reviewer 2: we need more code snippets here for the languages.

Author: can you send me these snippets as they are not in docs and I was told for Java its not as straight forward as just adding a command and in python it depends on how your project is setup etc so am not sure what to add here for other langs

Reviewer 2: clarified offline, we only show this paragraph in Node.js

title: "Browsers"
---

> Each version of Playwright needs specific versions of browser binaries to operate. Depending on the language you use, Playwright will either download these browsers at package install time for you, or you will need to use Playwright CLI to install these browsers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each version of Playwright needs specific versions of browser binaries to operate. You will need to use Playwright CLI to install these browsers.
```

With every release, Playwright updates the versions of the browsers it supports, so that the latest Playwright would support the latest browsers at any moment. It means that every time you update playwright, you might need to re-run the `install` CLI command.

## Update Playwright dependency

> * langs: js

Reviewer: Why js-specific? This is true for all langs.

You can see what version of Playwright you have by running the following command.

```js
npx playwright --version
```

## Install browsers

Playwright can install supported browsers. Running the command without arguments will install the default browsers.

```bash js
npx playwright install
```

```bash java
mvn exec:java -e -D exec.mainClass=com.microsoft.playwright.CLI -D exec.args="install"
```

```bash python
playwright install
```

```bash csharp
pwsh bin/Debug/netX/playwright.ps1 install
```

You can also install specific browsers by providing an argument:

```bash js
npx playwright install webkit
```

```bash java
mvn exec:java -e -D exec.mainClass=com.microsoft.playwright.CLI -D exec.args="install webkit"
```

```bash python
playwright install webkit
```

```bash csharp
pwsh bin/Debug/netX/playwright.ps1 install webkit
```

See all supported browsers:

```bash js
npx playwright install --help
```

```bash java
mvn exec:java -e -D exec.mainClass=com.microsoft.playwright.CLI -D exec.args="install --help"
```

```bash python
playwright install --help
```

```bash csharp
pwsh bin/Debug/netX/playwright.ps1 install --help
```

> ## Install browsers via API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Install browsers via API
```

* langs: csharp

It's possible to run [Command line tools](./cli.md) commands via the .NET API:

```csharp
var exitCode = Microsoft.Playwright.Program.Main(new[] {"install"});
if (exitCode != 0)
{
    throw new Exception($"Playwright exited with code {exitCode}");
}
```

## Install system dependencies

System dependencies can get installed automatically. This is useful for CI environments.

```bash js
npx playwright install-deps
```

```bash java
mvn exec:java -e -D exec.mainClass=com.microsoft.playwright.CLI -D exec.args="install-deps"
```

```bash python
playwright install-deps
```

```bash csharp
pwsh bin/Debug/netX/playwright.ps1 install-deps
```

You can also install the dependencies for a single browser only by passing it as an argument:

```bash js
npx playwright install-deps chromium
```

```bash java
mvn exec:java -e -D exec.mainClass=com.microsoft.playwright.CLI -D exec.args="install-deps chromium"
```

```bash python
playwright install-deps chromium
```

```bash csharp
pwsh bin/Debug/netX/playwright.ps1 install-deps chromium
```

> It's also possible to combine `install-deps` with `install` and install by that the browsers and OS dependencies with a single command. This would do both for Chromium, but you can also leave it out.

Reviewer: I'd merge this into "install browsers" section, and rename this section into `### Install system dependencies separately`

```bash js
npx playwright install --with-deps chromium
```

```bash java
mvn exec:java -e -D exec.mainClass=com.microsoft.playwright.CLI -D exec.args="install --with-deps chromium"
```

```bash python
playwright install --with-deps chromium
```

```bash csharp
pwsh bin/Debug/netX/playwright.ps1 install --with-deps chromium
```
## Browser Configuration
* langs: js

> Playwright Test supports multiple "projects" so that can run your tests in multiple browsers and configurations. Here is an example that runs every test in Chromium, Firefox and WebKit, by creating a project for each.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Playwright supports multiple "projects" so that can run your tests in multiple browsers and configurations. Here is an example that runs every test in Chromium, Firefox and WebKit, by creating a project for each. You can also add branded browsers and mobile devices as "projects", see below.
```

```js tab=js-js
// playwright.config.js
// @ts-check

> const { devices } = require('@playwright/test');

Reviewer: ```suggestion
const { devices, defineConfig } = require('@playwright/test');
```

const { defineConfig } = require('@playwright/test');

module.exports = defineConfig({
  projects: [
    {
      name: 'chromium',
      use: { ...devices['Desktop Chrome'] },
    },
    {
      name: 'firefox',
      use: { ...devices['Desktop Firefox'] },
    },
    {
      name: 'webkit',
      use: { ...devices['Desktop Safari'] },
    },
  ],
});
```

> ```js tab=js-ts

Reviewer: We can leave just this tab.

    },
    {
      name: 'firefox',
      use: { ...devices['Desktop Firefox'] },
    },
    {
      name: 'webkit',
      use: { ...devices['Desktop Safari'] },
    },
  ],
});
```

You can specify [different options][TestProject] for each project, for example set specific command-line arguments for Chromium.

Playwright Test will run all projects by default.

```bash
npx playwright test

Running 5 tests using 5 workers

  ✓ [chromium] › example.spec.ts:3:1 › basic test (2s)
  ✓ [firefox] › example.spec.ts:3:1 › basic test (2s)
  ✓ [webkit] › example.spec.ts:3:1 › basic test (2s)
```

Use the `--project` command line option to run a single project.

```bash
npx playwright test --project=firefox

Running 1 test using 1 worker

  ✓ [firefox] › example.spec.ts:3:1 › basic test (2s)
```

## Browser versions

### Chromium

For Google Chrome, Microsoft Edge and other Chromium-based browsers, by default, Playwright uses open source Chromium builds. Since the Chromium project is ahead of the branded browsers, when the world is on Google Chrome N, Playwright already supports Chromium N+1 that will be released in Google Chrome and Microsoft Edge a few weeks later.

> ```js tab=js-js

Reviewer: Drop this one.

// @ts-check

const { defineConfig } = require('@playwright/test');

module.exports = defineConfig({
  projects: [
    {
      name: 'chromium',
      use: { ...devices['Desktop Chrome'] },
    },
  ]
});
```

```js tab=js-ts

> import { defineConfig } from '@playwright/test';

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import { defineConfig, devices } from '@playwright/test';
```

export default defineConfig({
  projects: [
    {
      name: 'chromium',
      use: { ...devices['Desktop Chrome'] },
    },
  ]
});
```

```js tab=js-library
const { chromium } = require('playwright');
const browser = await chromium.launch({
  projects: [
    {
      name: 'chromium',
      use: { ...devices['Desktop Chrome'] },
    },
  ]
});
```

> ```java

Reviewer: There are no projects in java/python/csharp 😄

### Google Chrome & Microsoft Edge

While Playwright can download and use the recent Chromium build, it can operate against the branded Google Chrome and Microsoft Edge browsers available on the machine (note that Playwright doesn't install them by default). In particular, the current Playwright version will support Stable and Beta channels of these browsers.

```js tab=js-js
// @ts-check
const { defineConfig } = require('@playwright/test');
module.exports = defineConfig({
  use: {
    channel: 'chrome',
  },
});
```

```js tab=js-ts
import { defineConfig } from '@playwright/test';
export default defineConfig({
  use: {
    channel: 'chrome',
  },
});
```

```java
import com.microsoft.playwright.*;

public class Example {
  public static void main(String[] args) {
    try (Playwright playwright = Playwright.create()) {
      BrowserType chromium = playwright.chromium();
      // Can be "msedge", "chrome-beta", "msedge-beta", "msedge-dev", etc.
      Browser browser = chromium.launch(new BrowserType.LaunchOptions().setChannel("chrome"));
    }
  }
}
```

```python async

> # Can be "msedge", "chrome-beta", "msedge-beta", "msedge-dev", etc.

Reviewer: Use `--browser-channel` from https://playwright.dev/python/docs/test-runners#cli-arguments.

pytest test_login.py --browser webkit --browser firefox
```

Test against mobile viewports:

> ```python

Reviewer 2: thats bash

Reviewer 3: Thanks

pytest test_login.py --device iphone_13
```
Test against branded browsers:

> ```python

Reviewer 2: thats bash

mvn exec:java -e -D exec.mainClass=com.microsoft.playwright.CLI -D exec.args="install msedge"
```

:::warning
Google Chrome or Microsoft Edge installations will be installed at the
default global location of your operating system overriding your current browser installation.
:::

Run with `--help` option to see full list of the browsers that can be installed this way.

#### When to use Google Chrome & Microsoft Edge and when not to?

> **Defaults**

Reviewer: This bold renders exactly the same as previous header. Perhaps make it a bullet list?

Author: changed to smaller headings. bullets didnt look good

public class Example {
  public static void main(String[] args) {
    try (Playwright playwright = Playwright.create()) {
      // Channel can be "chrome", "msedge", "chrome-beta", "msedge-beta" or "msedge-dev".
      Browser browser = playwright.chromium().launch(new BrowserType.LaunchOptions().setChannel("chrome"));
      Page page = browser.newPage();
      // ...
    }
  }
}
```

> ```python

Reviewer 2: bash

### Firefox

Playwright's Firefox version matches the recent [Firefox Stable](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/new/) build. Playwright doesn't work with the branded version of Firefox since it relies on patches. Instead you can test against the recent Firefox Stable build.

```js tab=js-js
// @ts-check

const { defineConfig } = require('@playwright/test');

module.exports = defineConfig({
  projects: [
    {
      name: 'firefox',
      use: { ...devices['Desktop Firefox'] },
    },
  ]
});
```

```js tab=js-ts
import { defineConfig } from '@playwright/test';
export default defineConfig({
  projects: [
    {
      name: 'firefox',
      use: { ...devices['Desktop Firefox'] },
    },
  ]
});
```

```js tab=js-library
const { chromium } = require('playwright');
const browser = await firefox.launch({
  projects: [
    {
      name: 'firefox',
      use: { ...devices['Desktop Firefox'] },
    },
  ]
});
```

> ```java

Reviewer: Projects sneaked in again 😄

import com.microsoft.playwright.*;

public class Example {
  public static void main(String[] args) {
    try (Playwright playwright = Playwright.create()) {
      BrowserType firefox = playwright.firefox();
      Browser browser = firefox.launch(new BrowserType.LaunchOptions().setProject("firefox"));
    }
  }
}
```

```python async
browser = await playwright.firefox.launch(project="firefox")
```

```python sync
browser = playwright.firefox.launch(project="firefox")
```

```csharp
using Microsoft.Playwright;

using var playwright = await Playwright.CreateAsync();
var firefox = playwright.Firefox;
var browser = await firefox.LaunchAsync(new BrowserTypeLaunchOptions { Project = "firefox" });
```

### WebKit

Playwright's WebKit version matches the recent WebKit trunk build, before it is used in Apple Safari and other WebKit-based browsers. This gives a lot of lead time to react on the potential browser update issues. Playwright doesn't work with the branded version of Safari since it relies on patches. Instead you can test against the recent Webkit build.

> ```js tab=js-js

Reviewer: Drop this one.

// @ts-check

const { defineConfig } = require('@playwright/test');

module.exports = defineConfig({
  projects: [
    {
      name: 'webkit',
      use: { ...devices['Desktop Safari'] },
    },
  ]
});
```

```js tab=js-ts

> import { defineConfig } from '@playwright/test';

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import { defineConfig, devices } from '@playwright/test';
```

export default defineConfig({
  projects: [
    {
      name: 'webkit',
      use: { ...devices['Desktop Safari'] },
    },
  ]
});
```

> ```js tab=js-library

Reviewer: Drop this one.

const { chromium } = require('playwright');
const browser = await webkit.launch({
  projects: [
    {
      name: 'webkit',
      use: { ...devices['Desktop Safari'] },
    },
  ]
});
```

> ```java

Reviewer: Remove projects from languages.

```

Playwright keeps track of packages that need those browsers and will garbage collect them as you update Playwright to the newer versions.

:::note
Developers can opt-in in this mode via exporting `PLAYWRIGHT_BROWSERS_PATH=$HOME/pw-browsers` in their `.bashrc`.
:::

### Hermetic install
* langs: js

You can opt into the hermetic install and place binaries in the local folder:

```bash tab=bash-bash
# Places binaries to node_modules/playwright-core/.local-browsers
PLAYWRIGHT_BROWSERS_PATH=0 npx playwright install
```

```batch tab=bash-batch
# Places binaries to node_modules\playwright-core\.local-browsers
set PLAYWRIGHT_BROWSERS_PATH=0
npx playwright install
```

```powershell tab=bash-powershell
# Places binaries to node_modules\playwright-core\.local-browsers
$env:PLAYWRIGHT_BROWSERS_PATH=0
npx playwright install
```

:::note
`PLAYWRIGHT_BROWSERS_PATH` does not change installation path for Google Chrome and Microsoft Edge.
:::

### Skip browser downloads

In certain cases, it is desired to avoid browser downloads altogether because
browser binaries are managed separately.

This can be done by setting `PLAYWRIGHT_SKIP_BROWSER_DOWNLOAD` variable before installation.

> ```bash tab=bash-bash lang=js

Reviewer 2: strictly speaking we need 9 more code snippets here, but I'd vote for not adding language snippets, since this is a very niece use-case.

```

Playwright keeps track of packages that need those browsers and will garbage collect them as you update Playwright to the newer versions.

:::note
Developers can opt-in in this mode via exporting `PLAYWRIGHT_BROWSERS_PATH=$HOME/pw-browsers` in their `.bashrc`.
:::

### Hermetic install
* langs: js

You can opt into the hermetic install and place binaries in the local folder:

```bash tab=bash-bash
# Places binaries to node_modules/playwright-core/.local-browsers
PLAYWRIGHT_BROWSERS_PATH=0 npx playwright install
```

```batch tab=bash-batch
# Places binaries to node_modules\playwright-core\.local-browsers
set PLAYWRIGHT_BROWSERS_PATH=0
npx playwright install
```

```powershell tab=bash-powershell
# Places binaries to node_modules\playwright-core\.local-browsers
$env:PLAYWRIGHT_BROWSERS_PATH=0
npx playwright install
```

:::note
`PLAYWRIGHT_BROWSERS_PATH` does not change installation path for Google Chrome and Microsoft Edge.
:::

### Skip browser downloads

In certain cases, it is desired to avoid browser downloads altogether because
browser binaries are managed separately.

This can be done by setting `PLAYWRIGHT_SKIP_BROWSER_DOWNLOAD` variable before installation.

> ```bash tab=bash-bash lang=js

Reviewer 2: lets remove these 3 snippets as per https://github.com/microsoft/playwright/pull/21051/files#r1115394962?

pwsh bin/Debug/netX/playwright.ps1 install
```

> ### Download single browser binary

Reviewer 2: Seems like this is the same as above `## Install browsers`.

Author: perfect, removed

playwright install firefox
```

> ### Stale browser removal

Reviewer: Last few sections look like this now:
```
Managing browser binaries
  Hermetic install
Install behind a firewall or a proxy
Download from artifact repository
  Skip browser downloads
  Stale browser removal
```

Let's reorganize like this:
```
Install behind a firewall or a proxy
Download from artifact repository
Managing browser binaries
  Hermetic install
  Skip browser downloads
  Stale browser removal
```

This can be done by setting `PLAYWRIGHT_SKIP_BROWSER_DOWNLOAD` variable before installation.

> ```bash tab=bash-bash lang=js

Reviewer: I'd make this section `###` nested.

## Stale browser removal

> Playwright keeps track of the clients that use its browsers. When there are no more clients that require particular version of the browser, that version is deleted from the system. That way you can safely use Playwright instances of different versions and at the same time, you don't waste disk space for the browsers that are no longer in use.

Reviewer: Same here, `###` nested.
